Is the Password Encrypted when I Logon and Other Related Questions (Doc ID 271825.1)	To BottomTo Bottom	

APPLIES TO:

Oracle Database - Enterprise Edition - Version 9.2.0.1 and later
Information in this document applies to any platform.
Checked for relevance on 11-Jul-2013


PURPOSE

The note provides the answers to the following questions: 

1. Is my password encrypted when I logon?
2. What about parameters ora_encrypt_login and dblink_encrypt_login ?
3. What encryption does oracle use to store the passwords?


QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

 

1. Is my password encrypted when I logon?


The Oracle password protocol provides security for client-server and server-server password communication by encrypting passwords passed over a network. The Oracle password protocol uses a session key, valid for a single database connection attempt to encrypt the user's password. Each connection attempt uses a separate key for encryption, making the encryption more difficult to decipher. As soon as the password string arrives at the server, it is decrypted and the server re-encrypts it using a hashing algorithm and then compares it with the password stored in the data dictionary. If they match, the user successfully connects to the database.

As of version 10.2 password encryption during session authentication is based on the new AES 128 standard except for JDBC thin clients that will support AES as of 11g . Post Oracle Database 10g Release 1 clients and servers use a NIST approved AES algorithm without any modification *). Older clients use a modified Data Encryption Standard (DES) algorithm, the best algorithm available in both the server and client is negotiated during the session handshake for reasons of backward compatibility.


2. What about parameters ora_encrypt_login and dblink_encrypt_login ?


Do not use these parameters as of version 9.2 since they have become obsolete, some documentation may refer to them as being necessary, but the problems with the clear text passwords were all fixed as of Oracle version 7.1 .

Password during a logon is ALWAYS encrypted, this also means it is independent of the ASO feature being installed or configured. We do this since Oracle 7.1. the parameters addressed the issue that if a 7.1 client connected to a 7.0 server which did no credential encryption that by default a second unencrypted transfer was done. To specify if this second unencrypted transfer should happen or not we had ora_encrypt_login for login by a client, dblink_encrypt_login for login by using a database link. So the parameters today would make sense only if a newer client connects to a 7.0 database. A 9.2 client cannot even connect to a 7.3 and lower database, so the parameters are not needed. The second unencrypted transfer does not happen.


3. What encryption does Oracle use to store the passwords?

After the key-encrypted password is passed to the server, the server decrypts it, then re-encrypts it using a hashing algorithm and then stores it in table USER$. As of version 11g a case sensitive password digest is constructed based on a salted 160 bit SHA-1 hashing algorithm. Before 11g a proprietary Data Encryption Standard (DES) based one-way (irreversible) algorithm was used, it was not case sensitive. In future versions Oracle will also migrate to using SHA-2, information will be added here when it becomes available.
